#39367 DOC: split contributing.rst (#40130)
pandas-dev/pandas: doc/source/development/env_outside_docker.rst

.. _env_outside_docker:

{{ header }}

===========================================
Setting up an environment outside of Docker
===========================================

.. contents:: Table of contents:
   :local:

Installing a C compiler
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

pandas uses C extensions (mostly written using Cython) to speed up certain
operations. To install pandas from source, you need to compile these C
extensions, which means you need a C compiler. This process depends on which
platform you're using.

If you have setup your environment using ``conda``, the packages ``c-compiler``
and ``cxx-compiler`` will install a fitting compiler for your platform that is
compatible with the remaining conda packages. On Windows and macOS, you will
also need to install the SDKs as they have to be distributed separately.

> These packages will be automatically installed by using ``pandas``'s
> ``environment.yml``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These packages will automatically be installed by using the ``pandas``
``environment.yml`` file.
```
Not mandatory, but slightly better grammar and avoids the hard to pronounce "pandas's"
